34 Horae Subsecivae.

ment, and closed it with bewilderment.'’ lt would
appear from these opinions, which from their inten-
sity, variety, and number (upwards of 50), are
curious signs of the times, that Mr. Bailey has not

[Ι so much improved on, as happily superseded the
authors of Job and Ecclesiastes‚ of the Divine
Comedy, of Paradise Lost and Regained, of Dr.
Faustus, Hamlet, and Faust, of Don Juan, the
Course of Time, St. Leon, the Jolly Beggars, and
the Loves of the Angels.

He is more sublime and simple than Job—more
royally witty and wisc, more to the quick and the
point than Solomon-more picturesque‚ more in-
tense, more pathetic than Dante—more Miltonic
(we have no other word) than Milton-more dread-
ful, more curiously blasphemous, more sonorous
than Marlowe-more worldly-wise and elever, and
intellectually svalt than Goethe. More passionate,
more eloquent, more impudent than Byron—more
orthodox, more edifying, more precocious than Pol-
lok-more absorptive and inveterate than Godwin;
and more hearry and render, more of love and man-
hood all compact than Burns—more gay than
Moore-more' μυριάνους than Shakspere.

lt may be so. We have made repeated and reso-

lute incursions in various directions into his torrid

zone, but have always come out greatly scorched

 

