Education through the Senses. 481

much benefit to his muscles and his wind—who

i was trembling with keenness. He shouted out

’ something which was liker “ cutlery'' than anything

else, and was received as such amid our rapturous
· applause. I then ventured to ask the master to
ask small and red Dougal what cutlery was 3 but
from the sudden erubescence of his pallio, ill-fed
cheek, and the alarming brightness of his eyeS, I
twigged at once that he didn't himself know what
it meant. So I put the question myself‚ and was
not surprised to find that not one of thern, from
Dougal up to a young strapping shepherd of eigh·
teen, knew what it was.

Ι told thern that Sheffield was famous for making
knives and scissorS, and razors, and that cutlery

¹ meant the manufacture of anything that cuts.

· Presto! and the blinds were all up, and eager-

nese, and nous, and hrains at the window. I hap-
pened to have a Wharncliffe, with “ Rodgers and
sons, Sheffield‚'' on the blade. I sent it round,
and finally presented 'it to the enraptured Dougal.
Would not each one of those boys, the very
boobiest there, know that knife again when they
saw it, and be able to pass a creditable compe-
titive examination on all its ins and outs? and
wouldn't they remember “ cutlery’' for a day or
two! Well, the examination over, the minister
von. 11. arr

 

