latterto John Cairns, D.D. 321

holds curiously; he was retired, but not concealed3
and he was of the primary formation, he had no
organic remains of other men in him; he liked and
fed on all manner of literature3 knew poetry well 3
but it was all outside of him3 his thoughts were
essentially his own.

He was peculiarlya preacher for preachers, as
Spenser is a poet for poets. They felt he wasa
master. He published, after the entreaties of years,
a volume of sermons which has long been out of
print, and which he would never prepare for a
second edition ; he had much too little of the love
of fame, and though not destitute of sels-reliance
and sels-value, and resolved and unchangeable to
obstinacy‚ he was not in the least degree vain.

But you will think I am writing more about my
hather's friends and myself than about him. In a
certain sense we may know a man by his friends ;
aman chooses his friends from harmony, not from
sameness, just as we would rather sing in parts than
all sing the air. One man lits into the mind of
another not by meeting his points, but by dovetail-
ing3 each finds in the other what he in a double
sense wants. This was true of my father’s friends.
Dr. Balmer was like him in much more than per-
haps any‚-in love of books and lonely study, in his
general views of divine truth, and in their metaphy-

von. 11. x

 

