Notes on Art. 411

Queen Mab (a purely fanciful description) is from
Miranda or Ariel. Fancy is aggregative and asso-
ciative,—Imagination is creative, motive. As
Wordsworth in one of his prefaces beautifully says,
-“ The law under which the processes of F ancy
are carried on is as capricious as the accidents of
things, and the effects are surprising, playful, ludi-
crous, or pathetic‚ as the objects happen to be ap-
’ positely produced or fortunately combined. Fancy
depends upon the rapidity and profusiori with which
she scatters her thoughts and imageS, trusting that
their numberS‚ and the felicity with which they are
linked together, will make amends for the want of
individual value3 or she prides herself upon the
curious subtlety, and the successful elaboration,
with which she can detect their lurking affinities.
lf she can win you over to her purpose, she cares
not how unstable or transitory may be her influence‚
knowing that it will not be out of her power to
resume it on an apt occasion. But Imagination is
conscious of an indestructible dominion,-the soul
may fall away from it, not being able to sustain its
grandeur, but if once felt and acknowledged‚ by no
other faculty of the mind can it be relaxed, impaired‚

or diminished. Fancy is given to quicken and beguile

the temporal parts of our nature,—Imagination to
awaken and to support the eternal.” The one is the

 

