218 Hora Subsecivae.

who, in reverencing God‚ knows him, and in ἶ

l

honouring all men, respects himself.

The next is the admonition we have already
referred to, by Sydenham. Our readers will find,
at its close, the oldest and best kind of homoeo-
, pathy-a kind which will survive disease and the
doctors, and will never, as may be said of the
other, cure nothing but itself.

“ He who gives himself to the study and work
of medicine ought seriously to ponder these four
‚things-rst, That he must, one day, give an ac-
count to the Supreme Judge of the lives of the
sick committed to his care. zdly, That whatso-
ever of art, or of science, he has hythe Divine
goodness attained, is to be directed mainly to the

glory of the Almighty, and the safety of mankind,
and that it is a dishonour to himself and them, to
Ι make these celestial gifts subservierit to the vile
lusts of avarice and ambition. Moreover‚ 3dly,
that he has undertaken the charge of no mean or
ignoble creature, and that in order to his appre-
ciating the true worth of the human face, he
should not forget that the only begotten Son of
God became a man, and thus far ennobled, by his
own dignity‚ the nature he assumed. And lastly‚
that as he is himself not exempted from the com·
mon lot, and is liable and exposed to the same

 

